So we think about this,
what we want to do is we need to
start racing some things, right.
We want to race the different,
like whether or
not we should show the loading indicator,
when the data came back,
did we show a loading indicator for
long enough.
These are various things that we need
to figure out and coordinate between.
Our code has a little bit
of a problem here as well,
which is we are getting these
values at initialization.
So I haven't adjusted to
many of the numbers yet, but
these should probably be moved in as well.
So we'll go ahead, we'll grab these and,
We'll pop this in here.
This is our same passable but not good
version that we had before, right.
Again, sure, it doesn't flash
a loading indicator real fast,
but also it delays
things we can do better.
So we could theoretically we get our data,
and what we need to
do is we want to race between whether or
not we should show the loading.
And whether or not,
we want to race between whether I wish
to show the loading and
whether the data came back, right.
And so we could let's get our
data into a variable over here so
we can play around with a little bit more.
So then we'll call this data.
So now we've got the kind of three
pieces that we need to deal with here.
So first of all, whether or
not we should show the loading should
probably be a race between the data and
the loading, whichever happens
first should be good to go.
So let's call this one, I don't know,
The idea of whether or not you're loading.
That's a good point.
It will theoretically work,
but we can do better.
Mark's in charge naming things, so
we'll deal with that in a second.
We got show loading and the data, right,
whichever one of these emits
first should theoretically win.
Right, so okay, one of these should
happen and then we'll do the next one and
then the last one, then we'll have
a little bit of a problem here but
we'll deal with that.
We fetch, let's see,
res should show loading or data.
Yeah, we want the API to
be faster at this point.
So we'll say show loading
after two seconds but
our API should go back after one second.
Let's refresh that.
So API comes back as one second,
two seconds.
So we got our data back and
we still showed it, so
we gotta deal with that in a second.
All right, let's see what we got here.
So we've got our data, we're going and
fetching the data a second
time which feels weird.
So we'll have to handle that as well.
Hide loading.
You could actually make this a timer.
We're gonna say that hide loading,
is only fire after whatever
we're looking for.
Right, so this one will delay and
then do the thing,
this one will fire after
a certain amount of time.
So we've got both of these in place.
Should we show the loading?
Really, we should show it,
then we want to hide it depending
whichever one happens first.
So we want a window here of
should we show, should we hide?
And then what should we do in this case?
See what we got here.
All right, this still isn't working right,
we're fetching.
Our results are our initial values.
Let's go ahead and say show the letter.
Yeah, cool.
Well this has turned into true on me,
let's see.
29, show loading,
We're fetching a second time.
>> Do you wanna remove the data from
your concat since it's in the race?
>> Yes, well this could be slightly
problematic because we also,
what happens if show loading wins?
>> Never fetch.
>> Yeah, so
we would basically just deal with it.
Even if this happened, we'd fetch,
but we'd never hear about it, right.
So let's see.
So we've got our ability to fetch
the data, let's go up a little bit.
We had the ability to show the loading,
faster data, than hide it, right.
Now we could race the two of them,
right, the show loading and
the should show loading, right.
And that's kinda what we should do first,
we show the data then we hide it,
still problematic.
Next, what we could do is
figure out how to say, hey,
to your point, I want this data one way or
the other, right.
Because we know from our earlier when we
were learning that every subscription
will fire off another request, right.
But I both wanna race the loading
indicator with the data.
But then if I grab on to that data later,
and you have it, I still want it, right.
So I would like to be able to subscribe
multiple times so that fetch of data, so
I can hopefully race them
together a little bit better.
And there are a few different operators
that help us with this, right.
One of the questions I got earlier were
hot versus cold observables a cold one is
your normal observable.
Every subscription gets a new version,
fetch data will do a from interval or
from fetch rather and
go get it and give it back to us.
In our case, we could either use share or
share replay.
Share is basically now a hot observable,
right, and so
everyone that gets it gets
the same copy of the observable.
Share replay does kind of what
the name says on the tin, right.
It's shareable, but it will also give you
some number of values in the past, right.
This way it is already completed and we
had that data and we missed it, give me,
cuz this thing really
only shows that data.
So give me what it had
as its data at the time.
And so I show up late to the party,
I can have that as well.
So let's try that out.
Don't know why keep making a typo,
so we'll do share replay.
One, again, share, you might have missed
some of the previous transmissions, but
you'll hear for all new things.
Share replay is will also give
you a stream of the last n number
of values that were omitted
that you might have missed.
Cool, so we've got the data, fetch data,
we're gonna be able to share that
between different observables.
Whether or not we should show the loading,
we will delay,
that's a part of my issue,
where we want to show after, all right.
So we'll have a value that
we're gonna delay and
then we're gonna show
the loading indicator.
So they were set both by
it was taking it down and
showing it at the same time, right.
So we've got this show loading
which is gonna delay, and
then now at the correct amount
of time show our value.
High loading is just a timer that's set to
do the thing, but then probably we need to
actually, we really wanna grab
the first event off of there.
So we'll pipe it.
>> We need to show load it false,
we'll never hide.
>> Where's that?
>> Don't need to-
>> Well this is when we want to show it.
We're saying we're gonna show it,
we're gonna wait until a certain number of
milliseconds, then we're going to show it.
Hide loading is gonna be
the one that takes it down.
Cuz two things,
right need to figure out whether or
not we should hide the loading, right.
If it has been long enough and the data
comes back, we don't need to go for
a victory lap for
another 500 milliseconds, right.
We showed it,
we didn't flash in front of them.
It is only if the data came back so
fast that it would flash,
then we need to deal with that.
So high loaded, we're basically a timer.
It's like loading indicating went up,
we're timing the loading being there.
We want to make sure the loading was
there for a certain amount of time.
If that time has passed and
we're not gonna flash anything,
soon as the data comes back take it down,
right.
So basically, high loading really just
cares about when we started showing
the loading, and really we only
want the first as we saw before.
Cool, and
I keep putting semicolons in there.
So show loading, take an event,
delay it, show it would need to show.
All right, I could pass the value
through it too if I wanted to.
So I could say, Now we have
a timer that's going to go off,
right, that we want to start
after we show the loading, right.
So immediately fire the event for showing
the loading, that's still gonna delay.
After that we are going to fire whether
enough time has passed to take it down,
and then also the data can
pass if it's already happened.
So basically what to play
through the events in order.
Show the loading that's
going to still delay itself.
It's gonna fire, but then it's
gonna wait before it does that tap.
So it fires immediately, second thing
that happens, it's gonna delay,
it's gonna tap, it's gonna show
the loading, that's the first one.
After that we're showing the loading,
set a timer for how long things should
happen before it takes down,
then we'll have data actually clean it up.
So you'll notice that hide
loading isn't actually doing it,
it's like we could even call
this timeToHideTheLoading
Right, so we should show the loading,
which will theoretically race these two.
So loading actually should show loading
changes a little bit because we want to
race this whole process
with the data itself.
So here we're gonna say,
basically what I just said in words.
Immediately start the process
of delaying yourself
a little bit of time before
you show the loading.
So we'll say that.
Then, if you have shown
the loading indicator at all,
if that has ever happened, right,
set a timer to take it down.
However, don't take it down
unless you have some data, right.
[LAUGH] Don't tell me we're done
loading if you're not done loading.
So then the third thing, Is to take that
data, And that's when we'll pull
down the loading indicator.
Right, so this is just handling whether or
not we should show loading at all,
data dollar sign.
That whole process of spinning up
tiny when you should take it down,
should race with the data.
Cuz if the data comes back before we show
I don't care about any of this, right.
It's only if this first event triggers
then I want to show the loading indicator.
I'm wanna keep it up for
as long as it's supposed to be kept up.
And then when the data finally comes
back in, I wanna take it down, right.
So this will be roughly the delta
between when we decided to show it and
however long we said it should be up.
If you can get away without showing it,
please do, but if you're gonna show it,
set another timer for
the bare minimum it should be up.
And then when the data comes back,
take it down.
If the data comes back in that window
we're still gonna leave it up there.
We can deal with the data
simultaneously as well.
So now we can race, this should
show loading and the data itself.
All right, so we're gonna say that
the API takes, We'll show this,
but show the loading indicator for
at least, I don't know, five seconds.
So a little ridiculous, but.
So loading goes up, the data is received,
It comes back, it takes it down.
Now five seconds is ridiculous,
we shouldn't show that.
What happens if the API request
comes back in 500 milliseconds?
All right, let's just console clear.
So this case we're back,
no loading indicator, right,
we didn't show it at all.
This one we're gonna have the API response
come back, JavaScript timers are weird,
let's give ourselves like 200
milliseconds of wiggle room there, right,
cuz it could still be slightly
off with a fake timer.
We'll show it, but again, we'll keep it.
All right, if you're gonna show it,
the data is back, but
we're still showing it for a little bit.
Now 500 milliseconds is,
again, for a dramatic effect.
But again, you'd probably time that to be,
I feel like 300 is the threshold for
not seeming ridiculous.
Now even that was, you adjust it,
right, 300 even seemed a bit much
Yeah, so you can play with
the numbers a little bit.
But yeah, this is the tricky part
of kind of pulling together a lot
of these concepts.
Why would you want to concatenate stuff?
Because again, we through a event into
the future of showing the loading, soon as
we show the loading, then we set a timer
for the bare minimum to take it down.
And then if we have the data,
if not keep waiting for the data and
take down the loading.
But if the data comes back before any of
this it wins, forget this, ignore this,
forget all this complicated logic,
we don't wanna deal with it, right.
And that's where you can
start to play with the time,
race different pieces of
the timeline against each other.
Be able to orchestrate and coordinate
different things in different scenarios,
so on and so forth, right.
And so what RXJS seeks to do for us is it
seeks to give us kind of the tools for
kind of playing with all of these
things that might happen over time to
figure out which one happens first,
how to coordinate them.
What order do we want
to merge them all in?
Do we want to switch between another one?
Do we want to finish what we started
before we do the next thing, right.
What are all the different things
that we wanna kind of compile and
play around with, right.
But a lot of the pieces from the very
simple like turning things into observable
with for and of, to do bouncing things,
to switching between API's.
To putting things in a given order or
figuring out which one ends up first.
These small fundamental pieces can
become kind of the bigger like core of
how you build the more complicated things.
Cuz the tricky part is you'd
have to squint at this code and
read through it totally, right,
but it's not a lot of code, right.
The tricky part is the actual logic of,
okay, so
when do I want to show this thing and
when do I want to take it down, right.
And that's unfortunately a complicated
problem, JavaScript aside, right.
It's just our job as software engineers is
to effectively work through all of these
weird contingencies and edge cases, and
sometimes it gets a little squirrely.
But ideally, when it comes time to sit
down and start figuring out the code.
And we could probably break this out into
some smaller methods and stuff along those
lines annotate it a little bit better,
but to begin to figure out those things.
And I think that without
a decent abstraction for
dealing with things that happen over time.
You'd be setting a whole bunch of weird
variables that you would try to keep in
state, right.
Okay, now I'm gonna set
this one to true and
then I'm gonna set date dot now plus
the amount of interval, and then when
the thing comes back I'm gonna say if
date dot now is greater than the thing.
I'm already frustrated,
just I can't even, right.
And so to give ourselves tools we're
kind of managing all these things.
Again, it's all JavaScript under the hood,
right, but again,
give us abstractions for
handling all of those things as well.